So there are two types
of ElastiCache Replication you can have for Redis
and we need to know them both.
So the first one is called Cluster Mode Disabled.
And in this case, you have one primary node
and up to five replicas for your node.
So this is for Redis.
And so we have one shard,
so all your data is in this shard,
we'll have one primary cache node
and then we can option optionally set up
up to five cache replicas.
So from zero to five replica nodes.
The idea is that when you have a primary node
and some replicas,
in case of the failure of the primary node,
then the replicas can take over.
So the replication is a synchronous between the caches
and the primary node will be used for read and writes
while the other nodes are going to be read-only.
So on top of disaster recovery,
you can also scale your read capability
in ElastiCache for Redis by enabling read replicas.
So you have one shard,
that means that all the nodes will have all the data
in your Redis cluster.
The idea here is that you are guarding
against data loss if there is a node failure
and you can also enable Multi-AZ,
it is enabled by default by the way,
in case you won't have Multi-AZ failover.
So again, this is helpful for Multi-AZ
and also for scaling the read performance
of your ElastiCache cluster.
So now when you've disable the Cluster Mode,
you have two kind of scaling.
You have horizontal scaling
and you do this by adding or removing read replicas.
Remember you have a maximum of five read replicas.
And then you have vertical scaling.
And so you can scale up or down
to either larger or smaller node type.
In that case, behind the scenes,
there will be a old node group that is going to be upgraded.
So a new node group is going to be created.
Replication will happen automatically.
Again, this is behind the scenes.
And then once the new node group is up to date,
the DNS will update and our applications
will be using the new node group.
Now there is a second mode
and this says with Cluster Mode Enabled.
And in this mode, the data is going to be partitioned
across many shards,
which is helpful if you want to scale your writes.
So let's have a look at a second.
So we have Shard 1 and Shard 2 or 3 or Shard N.
And the idea is that the data is going
to be partially on Shard 1, partially on Shard 2,
all the way up to Shard N.
So it's going to be divided across all your shards.
Now each shard will work just as what we saw before
when Cluster Mode was disabled.
Now mean we can have one primary node
and up to five replica nodes.
So the data is replicated
and you set up the number of replicas equally
across all the shards, okay?
There is also Multi-AZ capability, it's on by default.
And so you can have, again,
failover between your primary node and your replica nodes
in case of an availability zone failure.
And you get up to 500 nodes per cluster.
That means that if you don't set up any replicas,
you have 500 shards with a single master.
But if you are setting up replication, for example,
you want one master and one replica,
then you get 250 shards.
And if you want to have, say, five replicas and one master,
you get 83 shards maximum.
So the idea here is that you are really interested
into sharding your data
when you want to enable Cluster Mode.
That means, again, that you want to scale your writes
and that the data is going to be partitioned,
that means that data will live across many different shards.
Okay, so this is the main difference
when you have Cluster Mode Enabled or Cluster Mode Disabled
for ElastiCache.
So therefore, when you are in Cluster Mode Enabled,
you can actually set up Auto Scaling for Redis.
So you can actually automatically increase
or decrease the number of shards or replicas
in your cluster.
So this supports both Target Tracking
and Scheduled Scaling Policies.
And again, you must be in Cluster Mode Enabled
for this to work.
So there is a metric we're going to track.
For example, the CPU utilization.
And then we can have a Target Tracking Policy
so that we want that the target CPU utilization
remains at around 60%.
If so, we can trigger a CloudWatch Alarm
and this CloudWatch Alarm can then increase the number
of shards in our cluster and, therefore,
new shards will come up.
Of course, our applications need to be able
to leverage these shards.
And so to connect to the cluster,
we must use what's called
the Cluster's Configuration Endpoint,
which is a way to connect entirely to the cluster.
So let's talk about these Connection Endpoints actually.
For a standalone node, you can just connect for read
and write operations using the one endpoint of your node.
If you're using Cluster Mode Disabled,
you will have one primary endpoint,
this is for all the write operations.
And then you will have a reader endpoint,
this is for the read operations
across all the read replicas.
Finally, you have also node endpoints
if you wanted to access individual nodes
for read operations.
If you have the Cluster Mode Enabled, it's very simple.
Again, remember, it's called the Configuration Endpoint
and it's for all read and write operations
that are compatible with Cluster Mode.
So you just need to have a recent enough client
and you're good to go.
So use the Configuration Endpoint
and you're good for read and writes,
which is the benefits of the Cluster Mode clusters.
Finally, you can also access individual nodes
if you wanted to by using the node endpoints,
but only for read operations.
And that's it for this lecture,
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.